too many people were expecting The Big
Short 2.0 and of course the financial
crisis 2.0 but this time around it's
very different we are seeing a very
different world until this moment you
came here for the truth so let me unveil
that for you in today's video I want to
outline what's going on I want to give
you it because I think you can handle
the truth can you I'll show you this
bank credit is shrinking for the first
time since the Great Recession and
that's a red flag for the economy so
this is just one part of the puzzle I'll
give you more but let's start here Bank
credit is seeing a sustained contraction
for the first time since the Great
Recession this means that businesses are
borrowing less as high interest rates
chip away at confidence levels the US
economy avoided a recession last year
but investors are still pessimistic so
when we look at this absolute fact well
we got to understand that if there
aren't enough loans going out if there
isn't enough cash being dispersed if
that liquidity isn't there then things
start to topple and this has nothing to
do with the market necessarily not
talking about stocks I'm not talking
about your seven shares of
Amazon I'm talking specifically here at
bank credit and it remains to be seen of
where this will go in the next while but
just understand that this does not
happen often okay look at this chart you
can see it for yourself okay it is a
rare occurrence indeed now you've just
begun but just judging where it had been
previously it's been going down down
down down down down down all right and
the expectation is that at least for the
next little while that will
continue why well because interest rates
even if they start to cut or signal
maybe they're going to cut we're still
deep into it okay we're 5 and a quar to
5 and a half% on the FED funds rate if
they start to cut okay we come down
we're still 5% and maybe we get three
Cuts this year okay we're still let's
even say 4 and a half% that's still
higher than where we've been for a very
long time so just assuming that things
are going to you know turn around
everything's going to be great tomorrow
I think we're missing the point here
they want cheap money they want that
stuff thrown out onto the streets from
the helicopters but I don't see member
nanki I've been using my binoculars and
I've been looking around looking for
helicopter Ben haven't seen him oh we'll
get there we will not yet okay keep that
in mind all right Traders give up on a
March rate hike rate uh rate cut excuse
me by fed as a bond Market inflation
expectations move higher we don't know
what's going to happen but the market in
with Futures and swaps generally do a
much better job of
predicting what's going to happen versus
you know looking at quite the opposite
okay when we look at the the Traders the
investors the you know the pundants
they don't do a good job okay and even
the Federal Reserve themselves so the
market has been highly accurate I don't
know what's going to happen exactly but
I can tell you something that we're
going to find out some information very
soon very soon and I think the first
action that they take we'll see if I'm
right the first action that they take is
reducing the quantitative tightening so
they're doing $80 billion of
quantitative tightening per month and it
seems likely that they're going to
reduce that let's say we go down to 40
billion or they do it in steps so from
80 billion 60 40 20 and then they stop
so that will be a gradual reduction and
it's kind of a hiot in a sense part of
this pivot it's the slowest pivot you're
ever going to see it's the Titanic think
about it Iceberg ahead we see what's
happening with bank credit all right
time to turn that ship they're turning
turning turning but that's a big boat
icebergs coming but we got a big boat so
we're turning we're turning we're
turning we're doing all these different
things we're going to start saying it
we're going to start to say we at some
point want to cut interest rates want to
stop all these things that's their first
thing calling it out the next thing is
to reduce the amount of quantitative
tightening eventually stopping it all
together and then of course rate hikes
all of these things need to come into
play at some point and we could see a
lot or you know depending how what
happens
exactly these things will come into play
you know this year okay so we're going
to see how that unfolds that's the
situation at this time inflation at 3%
isn't the problem it's the expectation
that interest rates will soon fall asset
manager says my goodness um all I wanted
to show you was that the market can't
make up mind okay investors can't make
up mind they don't know what's going on
they don't know they just want to hear
from the Federal Reserve they want to
hear from Dr and Powell that everything
is a okay just keep that in mind okay
the 8.8 trillion cash pile that has
stock mark get Bulls salivating Wall
Street hopes trillions in Money Market
funds will flow into the stocks and
bonds investors have varying plans
that's where we are just know that yeah
there's a lot there but it's not as if
all of that is going to somehow come out
into the stock market like people don't
want people love money market funds
they're very popular funds in fact why
you put them over there you leave them
it's liquid if if they need that because
suddenly they want to go on a vacation
they could pull that out if they need
that because they want to dump into
stocks they can do that it's basically
just a cash account think of it like a
cash account you always need some cash
handy they don't necessarily want the
cash in bills they don't really want to
put it in their savings account but they
want that cash so they put it in Money
Market okay so just understand that that
don't think that $8.8 trillion is sudden
going to deplete and go down to zero and
go to go into Apple stock so it's not
going to happen like that so just um be
aware of that the point though is some
of that if they feel confidence will in
fact go into the market so there is some
cash that could be coming and where does
it want to go obviously wants to go into
the the apples and the Amazon and
whatever Nvidia all these things uh
Nvidia being more valuable than I mean
you just look at some of these companies
it's more valuable then it's it's crazy
it's crazy real strong companies too
more valuable than that yeah I guess
maybe it's the leather jacket on that on
the CEO I don't know I don't know what's
doing it for them but here we go number
of mentions of generative AI related
topics in corporate transcripts for the
Russell 3000 are we past the peak hype
certainly we are past the peak hype but
we will continue to hear about it over
and over and over again at this point
companies are just like okay just show
me something that's like like not just
some cool stuff okay I don't want to see
know some Jerome Powell thumbnails of
this and that like that's not what we're
after here we're after like can we
actually fire a whole bunch of people
until they get that you know that's
going to sort of wean down slowly and
slow okay we don't really care about
that stuff anymore they want to see
firing people when do we get that that's
when the market will love it okay
markets love firing people by the way if
you haven't figured that out it is an
absolute fact um it's just a fact okay
and the
btfp so here we are come in Full Circle
btfp part of that when you look at the
reduction in credit and so on btfp Bank
term funding program the
Emergency Loans that's mainly by the way
the the big banks are using it because
they can make money from it but the
small Banks the regional banks are
actually in a very d dous
territory and they've got a problem
because they don't have enough assets on
hand and so they are really relying on
this and guess what March btfp is over
so we got a problem as of March just to
be clear looking at this the uh deposits
have started to come down on in Banks
and I'm wondering where this cash has
started to go is it the stock market all
right we could see some of that
data um looking like that that's
potential potentially what has happened
when we see the deposits broken down
between not seasonally adjusted and then
seasonally adjusted I hate everything
that's seasonally adjusted I hate that
it's a manipulation I understand why
they do it uh because they want to
manipulate anyway the red line that is
not seasonally adjusted and right now
we're seeing deposits starting to
decline here at this time and so that
means uh they've got to go somewhere and
are they looking for safety well if
they're scared about the banks they
would is that what's going on H I don't
know at the same time we have this
looking at the btfp more and more and
more usage we haven't seen this level of
usage uh the surge in fact since you
know these Banks started failing so we
know that there is this real demand
for that emergency program and then
basically just talking about the Federal
Reserve when they're going to cut this
is the big thing March is everything so
keep an eye on that of course on this
channel I will give you everything you
need to know hit that thumbs up button
to support the channel and that also
will make you more likely to be aware of
the video I'll do tomorrow which we're
going to get some really important
details if you want to get your
situation in order you've got some
issues with your finances you want a cfp
or a fiduciary to look at your finances
and by the way do so for free in a
45-minute call I linked up with money
pickle and money pickle is going to be
able to help you out all right so what
you do is you go down to the link in the
description and click on that one where
you know you'll be able to get money
pickle to help you out interesting name
they've got and I like it they've been
helpful to the people who have signed up
so far I want to thank you very much for
being here today and I'll see you
tomorrow take care